Okay.
So I am feeling pretty good about our job search form component.
So the next thing that I'd like to do is add a test file for it.
So right here in my project Explorer, I'll look for my tests unit components directory and there we
have all of our feature folders and in job search is where I want to create my test file.
So I'm going to call it job search form after my component and then the dot test dot just.
And what I'm going to do is move this test file to the right so we can have it alongside our implementation.
So we'll follow the usual steps for our tests will begin by importing the mount function that's going
to come from the view test utils package will also import our job search form component that is going
to come from these source directory components, job search.
And then finally job search form is the view component file.
Then I'll begin what they describe, like what are we testing and what are we describing?
We are testing the job search form component.
And what I'll actually do inside my arrow function is add another described block and this will be just
to provide the context under which I'm testing the job search form.
The general rule that I try to follow is if I have an expression that begins with the word, when I
think to myself that I am describing a scenario or a circumstance, and in order to not store too much
information in my IT function call, I'd like to capture that scenario information in its own described.
BLOCK So here, for example, I'll add another describe and I'll say when the user submits the form.
When something is the case, when something is the scenario, that's when I can use my aid function
call to actually declare what should happen.
Because the logic here shouldn't just happen regularly.
It happens in a certain situation.
And that's when I think it's really good to use a describe rather than saying something like It does
this when the user submits form.
I take that when the section and I move it into its own outer described block.
I generally like that approach.
I think it breaks down the test suite in a better fashion.
So what do we really want to test in our job search form component?
Really, the heart of it is this thing right here.
It's the proper indication of the search for jobs method and the interaction with our global view router
object.
So of course the question for you is do we need a real view router in our test?
And as always, I will argue for a unit test.
Not really.
We just need an object that can play the role of a router.
So what does a router really need?
Well, it just needs a push method.
As long as we have any object that has a push method, we can simulate a real router and we can tell
our test to replace or mock out the reference to this dot router with a complementary object that we
put there for its right.
Furthermore, the way I'd like to interact with this component in our test would will be just as the
user will interact with the component in our browser.
So what I'd like to do is mount the component.
Then I want to fill out both input fields, the role input field and then the location input field.
And then I want to simulate the clicking of the action button, which should submit the form.
And then afterwards I want to test that my component properly issued the right method call to my router
property and provided it with the right arguments right here for name and query.
And that will capture the heart of the component as the user interacts with it.
So there's a lot of steps to do in this test, but hopefully it makes logical sense.
It's just interacting with it in the exact same order and way that the user will in our browser.
So right here I'll write for my description.
It directs user to job results page with user's search parameters.
That's really the responsibility of our job search form component.
So let's begin as always will have a wrapper constant and we will mount our job search form component.
That's a good place to start.
And by the way, we do have a font awesome icon being used right here.
So I do want to immediately take care of stubbing it out so it doesn't cause any problems as a global
component in our tests.
So immediately I will set up my second argument the options object.
And in here we're going to have our global key.
And in our global key, we're going to have an object with a stubs property.
And in that object, sorry for the little popups in that stub stubs object, we provide the properties
representing the child components that we would like to stub out.
So in this case, I'd like to stub out my font awesome icon component and remember to just replace it
with the default stub that Vue test utils gives us.
We can just provide a true argument here because we don't really care what we started out with, we
just want to replace it.
So Vue doesn't get confused about the the real font awesome icon component being used.
Okay, so what is next for us?
Well, let's try to find these sample inputs, the one with the row and the one with the location and
populate them with values.
So right here, I'm going to say I'm going to find my role in putting a sign into a constant and I'll
use my find method under wrapper and I'll go back to my data test attribute approach.
So I'm going to tell my view test utils to find some element or some component something in my template
that has the right data test attribute.
So right here, I will look for a dot test of, let's say, role input.
All right.
And what do I want to do with that input field or whatever it is?
I want to set a value in it.
I want to simulate a user type.
The way I can do that is by calling a method called set value.
We did this a little bit earlier in the course and then I can provide it the value that I want to populate
in that input field.
And this will work with our text input, even though it isn't a vanilla add browser input component
because at the end of the day we are doing a full amount.
So this will be an input under the hood when we render the full text input component.
And because we set up the V model association, this will actually work just fine.
So in short, I'm eventually going to add the data test right here, but we are going to find this component
and we are going to write in the value to it.
So for a sample role, let's say we search for a role of you developer.
The next thing I'm going to do is repeat this complete logic for our location inputs.
So we're going to find our location input wrapper, dot find.
We'll also look for a data test attribute, but this one, of course, will have a different value.
Let's say it is going to be location, input.
And once I find that input, I similarly want to take it and I want to set some kind of value in it,
some kind of sample location.
So let's do a string of Dallas.
Okay.
So now we have populated our two input fields.
The next thing I want to do is to submit the form, and I can assume that there's going to be some kind
of submission button.
So I can say I want to have a constant called submit button.
And once again, I want to find something in my template that's going to have a date, a test attribute,
and let's make this one equal to form submit button.
Again, these values are arbitrary.
They're kind of up to us, but they should generally describe what it is that we're searching for in
a way that is not specific to the implementation.
Okay, then then what I want to do with this button, I don't want to set a value on it because it is
not an input.
I want to stimulate a click on it.
Now, you may recall the way we do this is we take that submit button and then we can trigger a click
event on it.
It doesn't necessarily have to be a button, it just has to be some kind of thing or element in our
template that has a on click directive or Avon Directive with the Click event.
So that view knows to simulate that thing.
So in this case right here, we do have an action button and we will be able to simulate a click on
it once we add the data test attribute on it.
Of course.
Okay.
So a couple of things worth knowing here.
The first is these methods right here, set value and trigger are actually asynchronous, so we will
need to wait them using the async await syntax.
Now if you have a good memory, you may recall that earlier on when we use the set value method, we
use that in our text input component.
Right here.
We were able to invoke set value and not make it asynchronous.
And the reason here is because we weren't particularly concerned with the component taking time to react
to all these changes and affect its internal data and effect the template here.
When we invoke set value, we just want it to interact with the emitted object and double check that
what we sent to our input was emitted here.
When we actually have to do is wait until the component is fully done re rendering which means populating
its own data and re rendering that template to show the latest value that we gave it.
A view developer Dallas.
ET cetera.
So in short, we do have to await all of these three operations in order to be able to use the async
await syntax, we have to make our test function right here, asynchronous start right here.
I will add the async keyword.
And before these set value methods and before the trigger method, I will put the await keyword.
And the way you can always figure this out is you can Google for the set value and trigger methods in
the view test utils and you will see an example on the page that will always use the async await keyword
and that can be your that can be how you can find out in case the test is failing for some reason and
you forget that you can always Google that and find out because sometimes I forget myself.
Okay, so the next thing that I'd like to do is to test the interaction with my router property.
So how can we simulate the component having a router property?
Well, earlier on we were able to mark out the root property by using the Mark's setup on our global
test object right here.
Well, it turns out we can do the exact same thing with whatever global property or whatever global
injection we prefer.
So what we can say here is whenever the component references this dot router, we can tell it any object
that we want to simulate the role of that actual real world router.
It doesn't have to be the real view router object.
It just has to be something close enough that can play the role.
Now there has to be some similarity, right?
So for example, in our component, if we are invoking the push method, we do need an object that will
have a push method, otherwise the code will still break.
But we do not need an actual router object.
We just need something that can play the role that is called a mark.
So right here I can create an object and really what I'm going to do instead is create it in a constant
above just so I can break up this code a little bit.
So right here I'm going to create that const router and that is just going to be a plain JavaScript
object and it's going to have a push method.
The question is, what do I sign?
What do I sign?
Push two, it has to be some kind of invoke able method.
And furthermore, we need to be able to test the interaction of our component with this push method.
Well, remember, whenever we need a function that can track how many times it's been invoked and with
what arguments it's been invoked, we can always turn to just mock function.
Remember this syntax earlier in the course we can ask just to generate a mock function for us like so.
And this function will be able to track how many times it's been called, what arguments it's been called
with, etc. and thus in our test will be able to assert that once we submit the form, this function
will have been invoked with the expected properties right here.
So let me show you how this is going to work.
I'm going to assign this to a constant called push, so push as a mock function, and then I'm going
to make our router be a plain JavaScript object with a push property the course.
Bonds to this function or in more technical terms to this method.
So we have basically swapped this thing right here with basically that.
That's exactly what our tests are doing.
All right.
So after we have completed the clicking of the submit button and we have waited for everything to promulgate
throughout the the component, at that point, we can reach back out to our push function and we can
assert that it has been properly called.
So you may recall that we can pass a mock function into the expected function.
So I expect my push mock function to have been called with.
You may recall this assertion earlier in the course.
This is going to confirm for us that this method has been invoked.
And then what we provide here inside this matcher is what argument we expect push to have been called
with, to have been invoked with.
So we expect it to have been invoked with an object.
And that object, of course, is going to have our name of job results matching what we see on the left
hand side there.
And then furthermore, I think I have a little typo here.
There we go.
Furthermore, we expect that query object to be generated and that query object should have role and
location properties.
So our role property should be view developer if everything worked out successfully.
So if we successfully populated the role property based on the value of the real input, it should be
view developer, which is just what we entered right here.
So this should be V developer and then the location property on my query object should be this thing
right here, which is Dallas.
And like that we are able to test our components, interaction with our view router without actually
involving a view router and by walking through the component in a way that a typical user will interact
with it as well.
All right.
So I am happy with this test.
Let's see it fail and then let's try to fix it.
So right here, I'm going to open up a terminal and I'm going to run just in watch mode with NPM, run,
test, colon watch.
And the errors that I expect to see are going to be related to being unable to find the data test at
two.
It's right here so we can start by fixing those issues.
So right here we can see it's unable to call set value on an empty wrapper.
That means that raw input is not storing a valid DOM element because of course the test is not able
to find any element in our job search form template with this data test attribute.
So of course we can scroll up and we can head to our first text input component right here where we
enter the role.
And all we have to do is provide our data test attribute and make sure it's equal to the exact value
we're looking for in our test, which is role input.
Save that.
Let's see what the next error is.
And things are looking good.
We are able to proceed through our role input code right here and the next error is the exact same error
on the allocation input.
That gives me confidence that we were successfully able to populate role input with that text of view
developer.
So we are successfully interacting with our text input child component.
So the next thing I'm going to do is go to my next text input and give it the expected data test attribute
that the test is looking for.
So this time around, our data test attribute is going to be equal to this thing right here, location,
input.
That's what we want the test to look for in our template.
That should bring us to our next error, hopefully, and indeed we do.
Once again, we have the same error.
But moving on to the next part of our test, the test is now not able to find a submit button.
In other words, it's not able to find any element with a data test of form submit button.
So we can go to our action button component right here and add that data test attribute and make it
equal to form submit button with those dashes.
Save this and we're actually going to get another error.
All right.
So we are getting this error right here, and that is totally fine.
We can see here that we are expecting to get the invocation with that argument.
But instead the test is telling us that push has never been invoked.
It says number of calls, zero, which means we have never invoked the push function, which means for
some reason this code right here is not successfully running when we submit the form.
So we're going to see how we can fix this issue with a little bit of Googling in the very next lesson.